.TH ifup 8 "22 May 2004" IFUPDOWN ""
.SH NAME
ifup \- bring a network interface up
.PP
ifdown \- take a network interface down
.PP
ifquery \- parse interface configuration
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ifup 
[\fB\-nv\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-act\fR]
[\fB\-\-verbose\fR]
[\fB\-i\fR \fIFILE\fR|\fB\-\-interfaces=\fR\fIFILE\fR]
[\fB\-\-allow\fR \fICLASS\fR]
\fB\-a\fR|\fIIFACE\fR...
.br
.B ifup 
\fB\-h\fR|\fB\-\-help\fR
.br
.B ifup 
\fB\-V\fR|\fB\-\-version\fR
.PP
.B ifdown
[\fB\-nv\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-act\fR]
[\fB\-\-verbose\fR]
[\fB\-i\fR \fIFILE\fR|\fB\-\-interfaces=\fR\fIFILE\fR]
[\fB\-\-allow\fR \fICLASS\fR]
\fB\-a\fR|\fIIFACE\fR...
.PP
.B ifquery
[\fB\-nv\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-act\fR]
[\fB\-\-verbose\fR]
[\fB\-i\fR \fIFILE\fR|\fB\-\-interfaces=\fR\fIFILE\fR]
[\fB\-\-allow\fR \fICLASS\fR]
\fB\-a\fR|\fIIFACE\fR...
.PP
.B ifquery
\fB\-l\fR|\fB\-\-list\fR
[\fB\-nv\fR]
[\fB\-\-no\-act\fR]
[\fB\-\-verbose\fR]
[\fB\-i\fR \fIFILE\fR|\fB\-\-interfaces=\fR\fIFILE\fR]
[\fB\-\-allow\fR \fICLASS\fR]
\fB\-a\fR|\fIIFACE\fR...
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR ifup " and " ifdown
commands may be used to configure (or, respectively, deconfigure) network
interfaces based on interface definitions in the file
.IR /etc/network/interfaces ". "
.BR ifquery " command may be used to parse interfaces configuration."
.SH OPTIONS
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-all
If given to \fBifup\fP, affect all interfaces marked \fBauto\fP.
Interfaces are brought up in the order in which they are defined
in
.IR /etc/network/interfaces .
Combined with \fB-\-allow\fP, acts on all interfaces of a specified class
instead.
If given to \fBifdown\fP, affect all defined interfaces.
Interfaces are brought down in the order in which they are
currently listed in the state file. Only interfaces defined
in
.I /etc/network/interfaces
will be brought down.
.TP
.B \-\-force
Force configuration or deconfiguration of the interface.
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Show summary of options.
.TP
\fB\-\-allow=\fR\fICLASS\fR
Only allow interfaces listed in an
.I allow\-CLASS
line in 
.IR /etc/network/interfaces " to be acted upon."
.TP
\fB\-i\fR \fIFILE\fR, \fB\-\-interfaces=\fR\fIFILE\fR
Read interface definitions from 
.I FILE
instead of from
.IR /etc/network/interfaces "."
.TP
.BI \-X " PATTERN\fR, " "\-\-exclude=" PATTERN
Exclude interfaces from the list of interfaces to operate on by the \fIPATTERN\fR.
\fIPATTERN\fR uses a usual shell glob syntax. If shell wildcards are not used, it
must match the exact interface name. This option may be specified multiple times
resulting in more than one pattern being excluded.
.TP
.BI \-o " OPTION" "\fB=" VALUE
Set \fIOPTION\fR to \fIVALUE\fR as though it were in
.IR /etc/network/interfaces .
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-no\-act
Don't configure any interfaces or run any "up" or "down" commands.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-mappings
Don't run any mappings.  See
.BR interfaces (5)
for more information about the mapping feature.
.TP
.B \-\-no\-scripts
Don't run any scripts under /etc/network/if-*.d/
.TP
.BR \-V ", " \-\-version
Show copyright and version information.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Show commands as they are executed.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-list
For \fBifquery\fR, list all the interfaces which match the specified class.
If no class specified, prints all the interfaces listed as \fBauto\fR.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B ifup -a
Bring up all the interfaces defined with
.I auto
in 
.I /etc/network/interfaces
.TP
.B ifup eth0
Bring up interface
.B eth0
.TP
.B ifup eth0=home
Bring up interface
.B eth0
as logical interface
.B home
.TP
.B ifdown -a
Bring down all interfaces that are currently up.
.TP
.B ifquery -l
Print names of all interfaces specified with the \fBauto\fR keyword.
.TP
.B ifquery -l --allow=hotplug
Print names of all interfaces specified with the \fBallow-hotplug\fR keyword.
.TP
.B ifquery eth0
Display the interface options as specified in the \fBifupdown\fR
configuration. Each key-value pair is printed out on individual
line using "\fB: \fR" as separator.
.SH NOTES
.BR ifup ,
.BR ifdown ,
and
.BR ifquery
are actually the same program called by different names.
.P
The program does not configure network interfaces directly;
it runs low level utilities such as
.BR ip
to do its dirty work.
.P
When invoked,
.B ifdown
checks if
.B ifup
is still running. In that case,
.B SIGTERM
is sent to ifup.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/network/interfaces
definitions of network interfaces
See
.BR interfaces (5)
for more information.
.TP
.I /run/network/ifstate
current state of network interfaces
.SH KNOWN BUGS/LIMITATIONS
The program keeps records of whether network interfaces are up or down.
Under exceptional circumstances these records can become
inconsistent with the real states of the interfaces.
For example, an interface that was brought up using
.B ifup
and later deconfigured using
.B ifconfig
will still be recorded as up.
To fix this you can use the
.B \-\-force
option to force
.B ifup
or
.B ifdown
to run configuration or deconfiguration commands despite what
it considers the current state of the interface to be.
.P
The file
.I /run/network/ifstate
must be writable for
.B ifup
or
.B ifdown
to work properly.
If that location is not writable
(for example, because the root filesystem is mounted read-only
for system recovery)
then
.I /run/network/ifstate
should be made a symbolic link to a writable location.
If that is not possible then you can use the
.B \-\-force
option to run configuration or deconfiguration commands
without updating the file.
.P
Note that the program does not run automatically:
.B ifup
alone does not bring up interfaces
that appear as a result of hardware being installed and 
.B ifdown
alone does not bring down interfaces
that disappear as a result of hardware being removed.
To automate the configuration of network interfaces you need to
install other packages such as
.BR udev (7)
or
.BR ifplugd (8).
.SH AUTHOR
The ifupdown suite was written by Anthony Towns <aj@azure.humbug.org.au>.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR interfaces (5),
.BR ip (8),
.BR ifconfig (8).
